[Music]
if you see a heart on a child's wrist
here's what it means you've probably
seen those posts on social media showing
pictures of children with little hearts
drawn on their wrists and if you haven't
or maybe you have and just don't know
what it means get ready for a real
tearjerker
because this isn't just some childish
doodling it's so much more than that
but before we bust out the tissues don't
forget to subscribe to our Channel and
turn on post notifications so that you
won't miss any of our new videos it all
started with one simple yet
heart-melting post by American writer
and blogger Liz patron she runs her own
website
Liz patron calm where she regularly
posts blogs about her everyday life as a
mother of four but she really took the
internet by storm when she posted a
picture of her young sons little wrist
with a tiny heart drawn on it but that's
not what got people's tears rolling it
was how she spoke about her son Lucas
struggles with severe anxiety
one day the worried boy burst into tears
when he got on the school bus and
although Liz tried to comfort him from
the outside as much as she could it
didn't help so the next morning she
decided to give her son a gift to make
him feel better
she gave him a peck on the hand and drew
a heart in the place she'd kissed
she then reassured him that when things
get too hard and he feels really sad or
worried he can just look at the heart
and know that he's loved and that
everything's gonna be okay she then has
sent him on the school bus and to her
surprise the boy didn't start crying and
that's because he felt confident that
his little heart would protect him from
bad feelings that's not the only thing
you can find on Liz's blog either she
also writes about her own personal
history and struggles with mental health
issues including postpartum depression
patron strongly believes that it's
important to talk about your problems
even if you feel embarrassed or
uncomfortable because there's always
someone out there going through the
exact same thing even though we all cope
in our own way we're all in this
together right
another mom from Britain Louise mallet
had a similar idea that she called the
hug button for her son Max when she saw
that he was a little emotionally
overwhelmed one day she comforted him
and drew one heart on his palm and the
other on hers they then decided that if
one of them presses the heart it'll send
a hug to the other
according to Louise the hug button has
helped her son a lot during hard times
and yet another inspirational mom found
her own way of comforting her daughter
on rainy days which made the poor girl
feel especially anxious she drew a heart
and a shining Sun on her and her
daughter's palms and told the girl that
anytime she feels upset she can just
look at her palm and know that her mommy
has the same drawing - she said that
this reassurance immediately turned her
daughter's tears into a smile of course
the methods that Liz and Louise came up
with aren't the answer to end all
problems but it's still comforting to
know that you can look at your wrist and
remind yourself that there's somebody in
your life who really loves and cares
about you children especially during
school need emotional support more than
anything going through all of the
challenges of growing up and trying to
figure it all out is hard so this simple
method can make their world at least a
little brighter
but are there any other techniques out
there how can you help your child
through this difficult period full of
big scary changes well here are a few
tips
if your child suffers from anxiety there
are a couple of things you can do to
provide emotional support for them first
of all reassuring your little one that
everything's alright isn't always the
best idea when you're anxious you
desperately want to believe there's
nothing to worry about but your brain
won't let you and there's a scientific
explanation for that during these times
of high stress the logical part of your
brain gets put on hold because of the
chemicals being released in your body
and that's why the more emotional part
of you takes control so try to calm your
kid down by taking some deep breaths
together this will undo that initial
nervous system response don't forget
that anxiety is scary even for adults so
imagine how hard it is for a kid tell
them that you understand how scary it is
and that you'll be by their side until
it's okay again when they're feeling
better another great method is to
personify the anxiety create a worry
character together with your child and
give it a name while you're doing this
let your son or daughter describe the
character in detail for instance when it
appears the most how it behaves how it
feels or when it goes away this will let
you find out more about how your child's
really feeling and coping have your
young one talked to this character so
that when your child comes it down he'll
relax a little bit too this approach can
be very helpful since kids at this age
have an incredible imagination that can
guide them through even the most
difficult times allowing your child to
openly worry is a great idea too at the
end of each day take 10 to 20 minutes
for the worry time ritual when your
child can fully express all the worries
and fears he or she had during the day
it can be in any form your kid prefers
either telling you about it out loud
writing it down or expressing it through
drawing or any other hands-on activity
just be sure to let your child take the
reins and decide himself how he wants to
go with it this method can really help
your little one let his feelings out and
get a heavy load off his chest
once that's done create a way for him to
let go
and say goodbye to the worries he faced
today
after sometime you'll see how much
relief it brings to your kid plus it can
awaken their artistic side too
and these still aren't the only methods
out there you can find even more of them
online in different forums where moms
with similar problems share their
experiences if it's getting way worse it
might not be a bad idea to see a child
psychologist they can help your kid
build his or her own powerful wall
against anxiety and find the causes of
it on a deeper level just don't forget
to listen to your own child as well
Blizz patrones approach isn't just for
children either everyone can do
something along these lines and attach
their own meaning to it it doesn't
matter what your age is or what's
bothering you in particular whether it
be relationship issues anxiety
depression problems at work or personal
insecurities you can use this approach
so when it seems like you just can't
take it anymore look at your own heart
doodle or whatever you decide to make it
and you'll feel much better remember
even if you feel like you can't do it on
your own there are always places where
you can find support it can be from your
family friends or even some public
support groups there's always a way to
see the bright side of things and remind
yourself how beautiful the world around
you really is and who knows maybe this
method will do just that for you so what
do you think about this creative
solution to crippling anxiety tell me in
the comments below don't forget to click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you